thank you okay so Emily will be our note
taker for a session thank you are merely
you are awesome we have a big agenda for
Jessica first day hi hope that you all
have a look at open it will be mostly
talking about luck we are going to do
this week a little bit about like what
we can improve in our normal process for
just a bit of purpose and I go after the
mouse Elm that we already have set and
we view them and like describe this the
current state okay know each other so
cool so point for this week I like
something that I wrote in an issue
somewhere is that it it to be very
important to take the opportunity we are
all together like this we are going to
review all of our goals for Jessica Vess
to also write down comprehensive lists
of the things that they have to happen
for each of those endeavors so far we
have been developing just I PFS on a
mouse on values that are ordered like we
are bringing focusing in like one after
another sequentially but there is a lot
of things that now especially as Jessica
fest evolved that are unblocked that can
be done in parallel and that the
necessary don't depend on anything to
get started so there will be several
sessions this week and what I hope to
take from each session when the session
hands is Alyssa thinks or at least like
even if it's like just very like just
works all the things I need to happen in
order to conclude that endeavor can be
from powells NMFS can be like completing
the job can be HT in via relay can be
whatever pops up etc but like everything
is little tasks that then we can like
curate polish and publish in the Jessica
first repo so that other people can come
in and see how like here is this
endeavor years alittle facts I need to
be done and I know how to help I will
help with this and I know that the team
is being focused on another endeavors
this one is like more free to
ll pot we actually when we started
developing just like with us last year
this is something that we did and we did
it based on comment right now since we
have more things built and like commands
are not like the first we're going to
face to just a cheap ass anymore
actually you are talking about the real
component inside just because it makes
much sense to talk about the real
components of Jessica thurs so cool this
is my hopes and I know we can do it and
again it doesn't have to be like super
clean up to each meeting it just has to
be something and then I won't clear
myself to public shows lists and publish
them to Jessica tells people cool next
up with any does everyone agree get a
thumbs up people sweet cool next up in
Jessica's development process is we have
been like we can improve the way that we
job Jessica Vess if we focus on getting
user feedback so right now we have
involving Jessup it has by our own
intuition and by knowing what's right to
be next but more and more other people
that are trying to use Jessica paths and
just happiness epi and they have
specific needs someone ended our
collective else does it there is like a
core structure of the development that
like needs to be layered but there's a
lot of people coming with needs and then
typically makes like shifts the
priorities for the developers of the
project and we need to incorporate
something like that into jazz I PFS we
also don't have a really cycle which I
think it's like a very poor management
decision for develop project at people
needs to rely on like we should be
releasing like every two weeks or every
two weeks and making sure that we
communicate to all users what was
released what was developed so that we
can get quick feedback and then we can
shift our priorities based on that
feedback for example we just alkane
orbits that's like now to get orbit
loading on a webpage we need pops up and
we need relay like really just bump
something the priority because we now
know if you have an app that needs this
feature in its more important than other
things and I'm sure there's a
will be other things that will source
from the community that they will tell
us that they need on Jessica Vess so
that they can use Jessica Vess for apps
one of the building things that we keep
hearing is documentation people want to
be able this is almost ridiculous to be
able to add files and I get up from I
PFS using the SI PFS in the API and I'll
do have been doing all we have been
doing a lot of effort in like
standardizing interfaces and I creating
it aspects and which are pretty great
and like make sure that like our
implementations fold those interfaces
they are not that clear we still don't
have like good tutorials we still on
several examples and we got our we get a
lot of this feedback from my fee from
email from github issues in an even
important like I remember really well
like being in Def Con and people tell me
i just want like to add some Jason and
get some dictionary fest we have to do
it like oh no III so frustrating so yeah
I'm focusing on the development process
and make it look like a product
something that we are shipping to our
clients our users will make us move
faster will give us a sense of urgency
in certain features it's really time
estate right I get a little bit self but
then I get motivated to fix things so
it's good so cool all right this is some
good awesome go ahead so to reiterate
you're saying that the type big things
are improving the feedback loop process
um having a reliable release schedule
for what we're doing and then improving
documentation across yes all areas best
yeah those things that we already know
that will be very fun are those the
three most important things for the
entire quarter or there are there like
you know it would be like the laying the
ground so that we can develop the things
in the quarter this is like hey we need
like we should not stick a lot of time
to say let's really something every two
weeks and I communicate with our users
that something was real reason a new
feature is then ask them to tell us if
stuff broke for them or they I have been
with the interface so that should be
something that requires me more effort
but I just requires us to change our
mindset of how do we develop just
because cool so now let's jump into the
things that we need to focus recorder
and that will go understand during this
week if we have time to all of them or
which should be the ones that will come
in front and the ones that we again can
have these lists of the tasks for each
and ever and then we can get some help
from the community and taking first from
the things that we work on q3 and that
we are still in progress some of them
are really close to be finished
nevertheless they need to be complete so
one of the things that we work on ptree
although it was a milestone for issue we
got a lot of work done on to the front
which is a sink crypto so think ricktum
means using the web crypto API on the
browser and the crypto Minaj is module
unload this means that like we are using
now native bindings to crypto libraries
that run way faster than our that the
implementations in JavaScript that were
using before if you have used jazzy bffs
in the past you might have noticed about
generating keys like a pinion yes
because just like takes forever if you
looked at benchmarks you would see the
blacks iko takes eighty percent of the
time from like exchanging a book and
read this usage of native crypto
libraries we can reduce the signs lastly
this does mean a big change though like
as the title says a sink crypto so we
are not
because the web crypto API in the
browser only knows up to do a sink
people operations again just so it
doesn't walk the event whoop so it
doesn't both the UI it means that like
we now have to cope with the sink calls
everywhere we do crypto across the
project so that's like a big PR with a
lot of smaller PRS cross several repos
that you need they are already out there
we don't even like committing word like
going to all those they already were
reviewed we are polishing last things
and making sure that we communicate that
very well and kept we don't break
anything but but the pr's are there so
expect that to be very very soon go
ahead friedl
just one one one note the teat ignition
big bones of using web crypto in the
browser for things that are available is
a great reduction in file size um the
current bills just to give you an
understanding house from all we're
getting is we are now looking at one
point two Meg's minified javascript for
the whole of Jace I give us I think at
the beginning of this year we were
looking with less features at over three
megs so this is pretty good um yeah
jaicko yeah I think it was actually for
max so we already shaved remix from like
the bundle small load when you're
speaking that could be closer to the
laptop because you're using the laptops
microphone that's kind of hard to use
cool so so yeah and that was like one of
the things that like a lot of our users
were requesting that we reduced the
bundle size so that they AB still take
forever to load cool next up testing
infrastructure so we added a ton of fast
living last quarter we really made
things more robust we detected a lot of
hours in just like bffs just by writing
the same test or ringgits and tests over
the API and true core using need
reciprocal score but we still have
things that you can improve their one of
the things like preschool has been
working on is like bringing the
sharpness tests to Jessica Vess we
already have a PR that as that set up so
we can now run Charlie's tests over
jesup EFS and what we decided was to
have this set up first and then like f
separate we are for each command and
then like physically tackle each of the
commands one by one and see what breaks
and I fix each of the commands which
then we'll fix issues on Jessie gfs and
separately in parallel all of the
comments break because like we don't
support every option crazy about Jessica
test version doesn't have the dash dash
all option so those are really like for
accommodation problems just like things
that we have to
spend time making sure the buckets ciy
feature computer complete so that all
the Charter says pass so yeah we
progress there we started a whole lot
more we'll be done next quarter
interoperability guests are always like
one of those that we keep talking about
and important but because the kind of
cuts in time and like we kind of get
distracted by all the other things we
never really liked set our mind to do it
and as was reiterated several times to
cross like several other spring meetings
it's about like how can we do
interpretability tests with versions
that our own master of go TFS and not
like released so we need like two ever
wait to build do I PFS inside our CIA
system or we just like test Jeff every
pass against the rule is a version of
WordPress which it will be something
more natural maybe like one quarter from
now when things are more and more stable
and like we don't have things to change
for the point a network stack which is
right now the problem we're like SP
version adds on the release version of
my bffs doesn't really work with gentle
refers to things that can be done in the
front is like using a PFS dcpl so
accusing the release version the other
thing that we now are getting through to
charlies test is using to IPTV IPTV the
interplanetary test that attorney built
to test why PFS can run as long as like
a binary use the same sierra interface
it can run any note and because you can
run any node can expand and you note so
we the sureness tests like we read the
refinement of the COI interface for
jetta Griffis we get a way to use apt b
to run the same tests that photographers
is all running these people so we can
like port all of those over or just like
run them in parallel
and get out of that interop testing free
by explaining some Jessica first nodes
into the mix of goa capacitance this is
something that like again it was one of
our quarter three goals but a little or
no time was pushed into it something
that's really important for us to like
be same and sleep at night because we
will make sure people i can use
Jessica's enjoy PFS we don't able to
think that the risk works so really
important for q4 outside and there is
benchmarks so um one of the session that
we should have this week is about
benchmarking performance mental
profiling memory profile etc we right
now have some benchmarks and on a pull
request it's the benchmarks that we've
bought it from oh I PFS you need to
merge oh so it's like one of them more
one of dangling PR that's there that we
need to click the green button all right
next up like so if I all just good
shooting because this is so big like
this deep throat me if you have
something to say picked bit swap
invitation so we learn couple weeks ago
oh maybe remember that our bit swap
implementation in jazz is not the same
level as the quietest one it has some
problems namely when transferring large
files or large share of the directories
fixes were done or is that a Taurus
getting a technician good more clicks
have to be done this is probably from
all the things that are missing on
quarter tree the one that we don't have
a necessary act I'm estimate of how much
time it will take us to like finish it
but we do know but like if we review it
on this week and I could come down with
a waste special tests like robustness
tests like making sure that we know all
to identify the problem and make sure it
doesn't appear again in the future we
can create compile this way something
that you need to do in order to get the
top really good and then we can expand
time finding and
understanding what is the problem preeto
want to add something yeah I just want
to just very quickly to this issue it's
currently not clear that this bug is
actually part of directly bit small
implantation yes it might be a bug and
everywhere Communications on because for
some reason at some point the
communication stops and it's not while
the ice spent I think two days or show
around this code debugging it I did some
something to fix not everything it seems
somewhere is going something wrong and
this might be network out or if it's
long so bit swap is just where we see it
plainly and the test is very simple it's
actually just I used orbit orbit is a
very good example the package orbit app
try to share that problem when I give s
to the other IP of a snowed and if that
works you can be pretty sure the basics
are working or not working this case
another way to test it is just like
connecting it's just the first no to
that I prefer Snowden trust for a large
file or like seeing could see
medium-sized file doesn't have to be a
life terabytes or something cool yeah
next up just there because DPI so we we
have a bug on just because API when
doing get so get like so get like so one
of the things that like actually it's
weird on gb API level is that like to
add file views multi-part messages to
get files we use stark string and cat
uses the power stream and the node.js
module for depth we use for char string
as a specific way of working which makes
sense when you think about our which is
like you cannot only read the next file
once you finish reading the first of all
so like to get to the last file we have
to read for all them and like ritual
that I mean not just understand that
there's are out there but actually drain
that stream
of that file and this isn't because like
it's a way to avoid like as in module
that are screaming module just
overloading the memory of the process so
in some way it's understandable what why
it is bill that way our assumption and
what we had then in jazz I PFS to the
yet core API was that quick which
estimates streams we'd readable streams
for all the files so our interface IP FS
Corps tests were done for something that
could emit street readable streams for
all the phones because since like
everything has a question from this it
will make sense so like when you put
networks on the middle and then you
shoulda factory Mon Ami though things
accurately so now we have a PR that
fixes based on just a beeper CPI and
that changes also the physical test
score tests to stop this assumption that
we can get the readable streams for all
of the files that come in at our stream
too just like the f string by string
went up to another again ER that's their
needs to get a syllable proved all
emerged and good to go cool the other
thing is the RL will cash so something
that will learn during def con is that
we could save a lot of time we could
save a lot of up sort of operations and
a lot of time in orbit if we have a
simple cash on the get requests for the
object coming it was not there so would
mean like if you did a get for the same
ash you'll be the oh you're doing an HTP
request to the note like that's just
expert expensive so we now have a PR
that adds a simple are all cash to the
get there is more things that we can do
there to make it even better the berries
are not remembering exactly what are the
other things but yeah darul cash there
it works orbit i use our okay stay and I
kid saves a lot of time on all the
pressures so yeah one more one of all of
those one more period is still a brutal
cool
interface I've even score as I said like
weezy hey always here I only have six
minutes left Oh faster smarter okay so
Internet activist core we did a lot
we're horrible tests we need to we have
respect written down for dtn name we are
already the test for HD they need to be
refactored to follow the same pattern
that we do all the other tests and then
we need to like do the test for name in
the same way that we do that all of them
and merge those cool awesome tree I
killed him I feel D we was like one of
the big goals of q3 we got a lot then in
terms of like really discussing again
nailing down interfaces and on Twitter
great everything we now have this like
set of PR act jeremy has been working a
lot on IPL d4 go which as set of extra
challenges of all to support multiple
formats on the same resolver because of
types in Java Script fortunately or
unfortunately actually this gets a
little bit easier for us because we can
just deal with every node types and just
like of our resolvers be completely
agnostic types and we have the pr called
awesome IPL be uh i got like a better
name I got it was awesome so I called it
that and and oh yeah basically we
finally figure out how to support
multiple Merkel deck formats on the same
resolver by plugging it in with the
custom resolvers for each format it is
pretty cool pretty excited we are
working right now like we already have
the probe upstair we are finishing the
support staff and we are working on
getting it you Liam blocks to be
resolved through the same result yeah
and this is like one of the big focuses
definitely for quarter for I would even
say for the next week's because I want
to use this and we also want to get this
done as soon as possible because it
should be home work with with all the
formats cool so milestone for developer
experience um okay I'll go to all these
major points at once we want people to
not feel the pain or by having to
understand and read code so I cues just
a bit as nice rest api this will fall
really well to the idea of like release
cycles we need to improve our
documentation we need to figure out a
way to create a page of documentation
for all modules right now kind of like
summer sound that you know I could be
true I call them all just to find like
api docs it would be like sweet so I'm
just a page that people can say all this
this work like just find the API call
and understand what it takes and like
what it comes returns and i have an
example examples are really important
more even than I sometimes interface
like function signatures yeah and it is
like building and bundling a lot of
workers done this quarter but like we
just want to like do what we can I could
invest the time to do the things that we
can reduce the bundle by the most like
we already shaved from for medics to one
meg and we can even do more um yeah
milestone five routing that is the IP
PhD it is one of the missing pieces to
get the Jefferson fermentation par with
the guy BFS so that i can finally know
them expect to any note of course it is
not the only thing like again without
real a browser knows you will not be
able to connect to the rest of the
network by themselves but they're like
we have settled on building the IPF sthg
in the same way to go ass and then
building the next version or bringing
back the next version that was done
first in jazz which is the pier all
things
reported from the content routing so
that we have multiple record source we
have some six feature parity this was a
mouse Olympus Kri the last the last
quarter as like the rest of things like
in the bag with the rest of the tasks
that we needed to do this will I feel or
I believe that it will be broke into
several milestones namely like unix FS
engine and MF s so getting all of the
guitar importer getting charting working
ken EMFs one of the things that excites
a lot of people is being able to have
things like registry mirror I can't be a
monic PFS running slowly on JavaScript
so that they can install everything as
JSON p.m. or even as opposed to that
like imagine like holding your webpage
and ash that is the full bridge to the
LPM on I bffs and then like having your
NP em COI being able to connect to that
browser tab and then downloading modules
from that like again physically doing
stuff we like eff it up installing
anything it's all like the dream cool
pink is here as like muscle six
francisco which is not here it has been
working on that it is on PR that we
merged we we can get that then pretty
soon it is the simple thing to add and
then there is IP NF which is a very
important piece our people have
requested it not sure if there's a lot
of use cases right now but anyways
people want to understand how they can
you do the naming on jessica stuff as
well so again we'll break that into a
separate mast out with specifically
stuff tasks and i'm gonna your
thank you